--- B-Cell Research Materials 2026-06-08 ---

Title: A Monoclonal Antibody Panel to Track Ongoing Antigenic Evolution of SARS-CoV-2 Variants
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.29.728770v1?rss=1"
Summary: SARS-CoV-2 continues to evolve, generating successive variants with enhanced resistance to antibody-mediated neutralization. However, many existing monoclonal antibody (mAb) repertoires were derived from exposures to ancestral or early Omicron strains and thus incompletely capture the antigenic landscape of newly emerging strains. Here, we generated a mAb panel by immunizing naive, unimprinted VelocImmune humanized mice with spike from the KP.3.1.1 variant, and isolated and characterized 11 neutralizing antibodies targeting diverse epitopes of recently evolved antigenic variants. We then integrated these antibodies with previously characterized mAbs to establish an expanded toolbox for profiling antigenic evolution among emerging variants. Application of this panel to currently emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants provided mechanistic insight into recent antigenic evolution, highlighting the potential role of altered receptor-binding domain conformation. Our data also revealed clear differences in antibody-evasion profiles between JN.1-derived lineages and BA.3.2 lineages. Together, our findings establish an updated mAb panel for monitoring SARS-CoV-2 antigenic evolution.


Title: Towards understanding of NK cell antigenic specificity
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.29.728791v1?rss=1"
Summary: NK cells can form clonal populations demonstrating features of adaptive immunity, including long-term memory and at least partial antigenic specificity. Given the limited individual diversity of activating receptors, the nature of NK cell antigenic specificity remains elusive. To explore this riddle, we combined scRNA-Seq of ex vivo FACS-sorted NK cell subsets expressing specific KIR receptors, single-cell cloning and bulk RNA-Seq of in vitro cultured KIR2DS4 NK cell clones, transcriptomic profiling of antigen-stimulated NK cells, and in silico modeling of glycosylated KIR2DS4-peptide-HLA complexes. scRNA-Seq resolved 12-15 clusters per KIR subset with highly heterogeneous KIR, KLRC and NCR expression patterns, consistent with clonal lineages. Notably, those clusters demonstrated over 30 differentially expressed glycosyltransferase genes, potentially involved in post-translational modification of NK cell receptors. Single-cell-derived KIR2DS4 cultures exhibited clone-specific cytotoxic, chemokine and KIR receptor genes, and transcriptional differences in > 40 glycosyltransferases. In peptide culturing autologous assays, SARS-CoV-2 (KTFPPTEPK) and EBV (CRAKFKHLL) peptides elicited NK cell proliferation and distinct transcriptional programs linking cytotoxicity genes, KIR2DS4 and glycosyltransferases. Structural modeling revealed that N-linked glycosyl residues in specific regions of KIR2DS4 may alter its contacts and interaction with MHCI and the presented peptide. We conclude that KIR human NK cells comprise clonally imprinted populations with distinct glycosyltransferase expression profiles, and site-specific KIR2DS4 glycosylation may modulate interaction with peptide-MHCI complexes, suggesting a post-translational layer of clonal NK cell diversification as a clue to their antigenic specificity.


Title: COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness in children under 5 in the USA: a test-negative case-control study
Link: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.28.26354328v1?rss=1"
Summary: Background and ObjectivesSARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) continues to mutate, circulate, and adversely impact health and quality of life. While COVID-19 vaccines remain safe and effective, uptake remains low, especially among children, the youngest of whom were not vaccine-eligible until after Omicron and are underrepresented in published research. This study estimated vaccine effectiveness (VE) among under-5-year-olds.

MethodsWe used Virginia Department of Health surveillance data from June 2022 through October 2022 to conduct a test negative case-control study. We estimated VE derived from odds ratios (ORs) of reported infections using logistic regression among children aged 6-months to 5-years.

ResultsUsing the earliest positive (cases) or negative (controls) post-vaccine-eligible test results, the VE associated with two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine was 78% (95% CI=45%, 93%; p=0.004) in unadjusted analyses and 70% (95% CI=25%, 91%, p=0.023) when adjusting for age, sex, prior testing behavior, and prior reported infections. The adjusted VE was 74% (95% CI=28%, 94%; p=0.025) among those with no prior positives reported and 45% (95% CI=-302%, 97%; p=0.569) among those with a prior positive reported.

ConclusionsThese results show that even though the vaccine was not closely matched to the dominant variants circulating during the time period analyzed, it was effective at reducing the risk of reported infections. This study adds to the body of knowledge on pediatric COVID-19 VE in an underrepresented age-group and in a rural region, illustrates the utility of surveillance data for evaluation, and can inform vaccine decisions to improve vaccine uptake for young children.

Whats Known on This SubjectSARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) continues to mutate, circulate, and adversely impact health and quality of life. While research continues to show that COVID-19 vaccines remain safe and effective, uptake remains low, especially among young children who were not vaccine-eligible until after Omicron.

What This Study AddsChildren under-5 are underrepresented in published COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness research. This test negative case-control study estimates VE in this age-group following vaccine approval after the 2022 Omicron wave, using surveillance data from the Virginian Department of Health in Southwest Virginia.


Title: SARS-CoV-2 Antibody Response during Omicron Predominance after COVID-19 Vaccination in People Living with HIV: A Comparative Study in Canada and Burkina Faso
Link: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.26.26354060v1?rss=1"
Summary: People living with HIV (PLWH) are known to maintain a degree of immune deficiency despite efficient antiretroviral therapy and may exhibit diminished responses to vaccines. In this study, we assessed the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccines in two geographically distinct PLWH populations. PLWH and HIV-negative (HIV-) participants were recruited from Quebec City (QC), Canada, and Bobo-Dioulasso (BD), Burkina Faso, for two visits at 24-week intervals during the predominance of the Omicron variant, from May 2022 to September 2023. Blood samples were collected at each visit for the detection of antibodies against spike (anti-S) and nucleocapsid (anti-N) proteins of SARS-CoV-2 in platelet-free plasma. A total of 360 participants were enrolled. We detected anti-S antibodies in 99% of participants, indicating that nearly all had prior exposure to the SARS-CoV-2 spike antigen, either through vaccination or prior infection. Anti-S titers showed no difference between PLWH and HIV-participants in each location, while significantly higher titers were observed in participants from QC compared to BD. In contrast, anti-N antibodies, indicative of prior infection, were detected in 39% and 86% of the participants in QC and BD, respectively, suggesting that the virus circulated largely in the latter population. No difference in anti-N levels was observed between PLWH and HIV-participants in BD. However, participants in QC had significantly lower titers compared to HIV-participants. Overall, this study shows that PLWH develop robust antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, comparable to those observed in HIV-participants. Significant geographic differences were observed in anti-S titers, irrespective of HIV status, with participants from QC displaying higher titers. In contrast, participants from BD had higher anti-N antibody prevalence and titers, reflecting more SARS-CoV-2 infections in BD than in QC. Finally, analysis of anti-S antibody titers against several circulating variants revealed significantly lower levels in unvaccinated participants and in those vaccinated with monovalent vaccines in BD. No significant difference was observed between monovalent and bivalent vaccines administered in QC.
