--- B-Cell Research Materials 2026-06-01 ---

Title: The biodistribution and effect of post-exposure neutralising monoclonal antibody treatment in a mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 infection with viral spread to the brain
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.27.728081v1?rss=1"
Summary: Ronapreve, a combination of two neutralising monoclonal antibodies, casirivimab and imdevimab, was amongst the authorised treatments against SARS-CoV-2 early in the COVID-19 pandemic. Ronapreve has lost some of its efficiency with the rise of new virus variants, however, it remains a valuable tool for experimental studies to gain insights into the mechanisms and effects of anti-viral drugs. In this study we combined morphological, pharmacokinetic and molecular approaches (including multiomics) to investigate the biodistribution of Ronapreve in the K18-hACE2 murine model of SARS-CoV-2 neuroinvasion, as well as possible consequences for the brain. We also investigated the effect of the treatment on the infection status. Our results showed that after intraperitoneal injection, Ronapreve accumulates in the serum and is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier, thus not reaching the brain parenchyma; treatment has only a minimal effect on the brain transcriptome, with no significant changes in the brain lipidome or metabolome. Nonetheless, post-exposure Ronapreve treatment resulted in reduced viral loads in the lung and, in particular, the brain, with markedly reduced tissue response in the brain, as shown by the transcriptomic analysis. The results suggest a peripheral mode of action of Ronapreve to block brain infection, possibly by lowering viral replication in the nasal epithelium, reducing a subsequent spread to the brain.


Title: Antibody Transcytosis and Neutralizing Activity in Respiratory Epithelial Cells
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.25.727697v1?rss=1"
Summary: The neutralizing activity present in human serum is considered a correlate of protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease but the mechanisms by which serum antibodies are transported into the lumen of the respiratory tract, where they are required to interact with virus particles and infected cells remain incompletely understood. The transcytosis and neutralizing activity of serum-derived IgG and IgA antibodies was investigated using an in vitro SARS-CoV-2 infection model with primary differentiated human nasal and basal epithelial cells (hNECs and hBECs) cultures. Expression of the antibody transport receptors neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) and polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (pIgR) in hNECs cultures was confirmed by qPCR, immunofluorescence microscopy, and flow cytometry. Both receptors were expressed throughout the epithelial cultures, with enriched expression observed in ciliated cells compared with goblet and basal cells. Purified IgG and IgA isolated from convalescent plasma demonstrated specificity for SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and inhibited ACE2-Spike interactions, although activity was reduced against later variants. Purified IgG contained higher anti-spike antibody titers than purified IgA. Functional neutralization assays showed that transcytosed IgG and IgA significantly reduced SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with untreated controls. However, serial dilution studies demonstrated that IgG-mediated neutralization was more potent than IgA-mediated neutralization. Similar results were determined for influenza A virus H3N2 subtype. The transcytosis of IgG was more efficient in hBEC cultures while IgA transcytosis was higher in hNEC cultures, reflecting the levels of the corresponding transport proteins. Together, these findings demonstrate that serum-derived IgG and IgA can undergo transepithelial transport across human nasal epithelium while retaining SARS-CoV-2 or influenza A virus neutralizing activity in vitro. These results suggest that FcRn- and pIgR-mediated antibody transport may contribute to mucosal protection following vaccination or infection and may help identify antibody responses associated with protection against SARS-CoV-2.

ImportanceSerum antibody levels are considered correlates of protection for SARS-CoV-2 and Influenza A virus but its unclear how those antibodies are transported to the apical surface of respiratory epithelial cells, where they must be present for optimal activity. We show that IgG and IgA specific for SARS-CoV-2 or influenza A virus is transcytosed across respiratory epithelial cell cultures, the efficiency of which reflects the level of FcRn or pIgR expression levels, suggesting that cells of the upper and lower respiratory tract transport different antibodies from the blood.


Title: Antigenic characterization of SARS-CoV-2 variants BA.3.2.1 and BA.3.2.2 in three animal models
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.24.727525v1?rss=1"
Summary: BA.3.2, a variant of SARS-CoV-2 containing [~]40 mutations in its spike protein compared to its nearest ancestor, has spread globally since its first detection in South Africa in November 2024. Here, we report antigenic characterization of BA.3.2 viruses in three naive animal models, and visualize its antigenic phenotype in the context of SARS-CoV-2 evolution using antigenic cartography. We find that: (1) BA.3.2 is substantially antigenically divergent from existing SARS-CoV-2 variants; (2) infection with BA.3.2 in hamster and mouse animal models produces sera with lower homologous titer than infection with other variants. Both of these results may have implications for the selection of vaccine antigens.


Title: Low seroprevalence of neutralizing antibodies to gorilla adenovirus 32 (GRAd32) in southern African populations supports evaluation of this vector platform for HIV vaccine development
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.23.726423v1?rss=1"
Summary: Adenoviruses (Ads) are widely used as vaccine vectors. However, pre-existing immunity to commonly used serotypes, like Ad5, can reduce vaccine immunogenicity, with neutralizing antibody titers >200 previously shown to impact vaccine efficacy. Gorilla adenovirus (GRAd) vectors have been developed to evade pre-existing anti-vector responses, but their seroprevalence in southern Africa is poorly defined. Here, we assessed seroprevalence to GRAd32, Ad26 and Ad5 before (baseline) and after COVID-19 vaccination, in cohorts from South Africa and Zimbabwe.

Sera from South African participants enrolled in the Sisonke sub-study (n=100, prior to Ad26.COV2.S vaccination) and the follow-up "Booster after Sisonke" (BaSiS) study (n=226) were tested for neutralizing antibodies to Ad5, Ad26, and GRAd32. These samples included paired pre/post boost samples for 27 donors. We also tested sera from the Zimbabwean Mutala cohort (n=131, of which 44 were unvaccinated, and 87 vaccinated with inactivated vaccines). Participants living with HIV (PLWH) comprised 30-50% of each cohort.

In the pre-vaccination samples from the Sisonke cohort, geometric mean titers (GMT) for anti-GRAd32, Ad26, and Ad5 antibodies were 78, 142, and 459, with neutralization titers >200 observed in 14%, 32%, and 68% of participants, respectively. Similarly, in the unvaccinated participants in the Mutala cohort, GMTs for GRAd32, Ad26, and Ad5 were 117, 245, and 536, with neutralizing titers >200 in 22%, 42%, and 69% of participants. We observed no significant difference in Ad antibody titers between PLWH and those living without HIV. We next assessed the impact of COVID-19 vaccination on titers. Vaccination with inactivated COVID-19 vaccines (Sinopharm/Sinovac) did not significantly affect Ad5, Ad26 or GRAd32 titers in an unpaired analysis. In contrast, [~]9 months after Ad26.COV2.S vaccination, anti-Ad26 titers for longitudinally sampled participants (n=27) increased 10-fold from a GMT of 141 to 1,426. By comparison, GRAd32 responses were not significantly altered by Ad26.COV2.S vaccination, while anti-Ad5 responses showed a modest <2-fold increase.

Our data support previous findings that, whereas anti-Ad5 neutralizing antibody responses are commonly detected globally, GRAd32 responses are less frequent. Importantly, GRAd32 neutralizing responses remained unchanged after Ad26.COV2.S vaccination. HIV status had no significant effect on antibody titers. These results support the use of the GRAd32 vector in upcoming HIV vaccine trials, including in regions where Ad26-based COVID-19 vaccines were widely deployed.


Title: Rapid in vitro synthesis of DNA templates via Sidewinder for polyadenylated Hantavirus mRNA vaccine candidates
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.05.22.727328v1?rss=1"
Summary: As the recent COVID-19 pandemic illustrated, zoonotic viruses and other pathogens pose a credible threat to public health. Recent advancements in vaccine technology, particularly mRNA vaccines, provide key tools for an effective and swift public health response. Although mRNA vaccines can be developed more quickly than traditional vaccines, fast and accurate construction of DNA templates for these vaccines remains a critical bottleneck. Using our novel DNA assembly technology, Sidewinder, we rapidly designed and built multiple mRNA vaccine candidates to guard against a potential outbreak of Hantavirus (ANDV). We successfully constructed the DNA templates from oligo pools and produced the mRNA for three vaccine candidates in just 2 days after delivery of the synthetic DNA oligos.
