--- B-Cell Research Materials 2026-06-15 ---

Title: Cross-protection against Bundibugyo by Ebola and Sudan vaccines
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.06.10.731377v1?rss=1"
Summary: Ebola outbreaks continue to expand across Central Africa, yet available countermeasures remain limited and virus-specific. Whether available vaccines developed against the related Ebola virus (EBOV) and Sudan virus (SUDV) can confer cross-protection against Bundibugyo virus (BDBV) is incompletely understood. Here, we developed a BDBV surrogate challenge model and evaluated cross-protective immunity conferred by a set of monovalent vaccine candidates representing all three Orthoebolavirus species affecting humans. A yellow fever 17D-vectored BDBV vaccine (YF-BDB) expressing the BDBV glycoprotein (GP) as antigen conferred homologous protection in Ifnar-/- mice, preventing systemic viral dissemination and providing survival following surrogate BDBV challenge. Intriguingly, also vaccination with YF-EBO or YF-SUD protected mice from such BDBV surrogate challenge. Conversely, while YF-BDB and YF-EBO fully protected against respective heterologous EBOV or BDBV infection, they conferred only partial protection against lethal challenge in a comparable SUDV model. Serological analyses revealed comparable titers of cross-reactive antibodies across all vaccine groups. However, neutralization, especially cross-neutralization, was limited suggesting a major role for non-neutralizing mechanisms in protection. These findings demonstrate asymmetry in cross-protective immunity among Orthoebolavirus vaccines and indicate that SUDV GP-based antigens may provide broader protection than EBOV- or BDBV-targeted candidates. However, our data add to the preliminary yet limited evidence that EBOV GP-based vaccines might offer at least some degree of protection against BDBV, the virus driving current Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHIEC) in the Central-East Africa region.


Title: Early innate immune signatures correlate with Ad26.COV2.S vaccine durability and protective efficacy
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.06.09.731069v1?rss=1"
Summary: The innate immune system is rapidly activated following antigen exposure and plays a critical role in shaping the ensuing adaptive immune responses. In this study, we performed bulk RNA sequencing and proteomic profiling in a cohort of 25 rhesus macaques following Ad26.COV2.S immunization to characterize early innate correlates of vaccine immunogenicity and protection. Our results show that innate immune activation occurred as early as day 1 post-vaccination and demonstrated an systemic enrichment of antiviral interferon pathways, interleukin signaling, and innate immune cell signatures. These early transcriptomic signatures correlated positively with humoral and cellular immune responses at 6 weeks following vaccination and correlated inversely with viral loads following SARS-CoV-2 challenge. Similar correlates of immunogenicity were observed in a cohort of 25 adult healthy participants vaccinated with Ad26.COV2.S. Taken together, these findings highlight the importance of early activation of the innate immune system for Ad26.COV2.S vaccine immunogenicity and protective efficacy.

Graphical SummaryGraphical summary of the model proposed by our findings. Day 1 innate immune signatures are protective of long-term protection.



O_FIG O_LINKSMALLFIG WIDTH=200 HEIGHT=106 SRC="FIGDIR/small/731069v1_ufig1.gif" ALT="Figure 1">
View larger version (24K):
org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@12bf721org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@16dbc08org.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@153bd3corg.highwire.dtl.DTLVardef@acc149_HPS_FORMAT_FIGEXP  M_FIG C_FIG IMPORTANCEEarly vaccine induction of innate immunity may be critical for vaccine immunogenicity and protective efficacy. In this study, we evaluated innate immune responses following Ad26.COV2.S vaccination in both rhesus macaques and humans. Early induction of innate immune signatures on day 1 following vaccination correlated with subsequent development of adaptive immune responses. These data suggest that the immune programming that occurs immediately after vaccination dictates immunogenicity weeks or months later.


Title: Computational and Experimental Antibody Affinity and Diagnostic Accuracy Quantification of SARS-CoV-2 SD2 Major Disulfide Loop Analog
Link: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.06.05.26353587v1?rss=1"
Summary: IntroductionSynthetic oligopeptides provide a rapid and cost-efficient approach to developing antibodies and diagnostics for emerging viral variants.

MethodsThis study computationally and experimentally characterized a synthetic peptide analog of the SARS-CoV-2 spike subdomain 2 major disulfide loop (SD2MDL), designated S621 (CPVAIHADQLTPTWRVYSTC). Binding affinity was computationally estimated using the Heuristic Affinity Prediction Tool for Immune Complexes (HAPTIC), while experimental validation was performed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with rabbit-derived antipeptide antibodies. Clinical diagnostic accuracy testing was done using plasma samples from RT-PCR- confirmed COVID-19 patients and pre-COVID-19 controls.

ResultsS621 demonstrated nanomolar binding affinity [Formula] and high avidity (3.67 nM), closely matching HAPTIC predictions (3.54 nM). Diagnostic evaluation yielded a sensitivity of 89.92% and specificity of 27.79%, corresponding to an overall accuracy of 71.79%.

DiscussionThese findings demonstrate that a single synthetic peptide derived from a conserved spike subdomain can function as a high-affinity surrogate for full-length antigens, supporting its potential application in rapid peptide-based immunodiagnostics.


Title: Broad Sarbecovirus Neutralization by an S2-Directed Plasma Antibody Defines a New Site of Vulnerability in SARS-like Viruses
Link: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.06.06.730562v1?rss=1"
Summary: The repeated emergence of pathogenic coronaviruses highlights the continual threat of zoonotic spillover events and the need to understand conserved regions of the viral spike protein that influence immune recognition. Here, we employ high-resolution proteomic analysis of circulating immunoglobulins to characterize the antibody response to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein in vaccinated and infected individuals. We recombinantly expressed abundant plasma IgG lineages and identified nine antibodies targeting the highly conserved S2 spike subunit. Most of these S2-reactive plasma mAbs (7 of 9) exhibited neutralizing activity against pangolin coronavirus, while one mAb (SC45) demonstrated potent (IC50 < 1 {micro}g/mL) neutralizing activity against both pangolin and bat sarbecoviruses RsSHC014 and WIV1. Additionally, SC45 exhibited potent prophylactic efficacy in the K18-hACE2 mouse model challenged with Pangolin-Guangdong CoV MP789 (Pg-CoV), significantly reducing lung viral replication at day 4 post-infection. The cryo-EM structure of SC45 bound to the prefusion-stabilized S2 domain of Pg-CoV reveals that SC45 targets a novel, conserved epitope in the connector domain. Strikingly, even though SC45 was the most abundant antibody ([~]13%) of anti-spike plasma IgG in an infected patient and binds to both SARS-CoV-2 and Pg-CoV spike with comparable affinities, it fails to neutralize early (D614G and Omicron BA.1) SARS-CoV-2 variants. Together, these findings identify a conserved site of vulnerability in the spike S2 subunit which informs on potential mechanisms of antibody immunity to zoonotic coronaviruses.
